README.md, before:

# TSBlackjack
[![GitHub issues](https://img.shields.io/github/issues/nakedmcse/TSBlackjack.png)](https://github.com/nakedmcse/TSBlackjack/issues)
[![last-commit](https://img.shields.io/github/last-commit/nakedmcse/TSBlackjack)](https://github.com/nakedmcse/TSBlackjack/commits/master)

This contains the TypeScript version of the BlackJack game API.

## Environment
The `.env` file must be created for this application to run.  Rename `.envExample` to `.env`.

### Env File Settings
Edit the `.env` file to set the following:

| Setting                   | Description                                                             |
|---------------------------|-------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| PORT                      | The port the service will listen on                                     |

## Building

To build this API, clone this repo and then execute:

```shell
npm install
npm run build
```

This will compile the API to the /dist folder.

You can then execute the API using:

```shell
npm run runjs
```

The API can also be run directly without building for development using:

```shell
npm run run
```

## Usage

This API contains 5 interactions.

1. [Deal](#deal)
2. [Hit](#hit)
3. [Stay](#stay)
4. [Stats](#stats)
5. [History](#history)

> **NOTE:** Depending on your shell, you may need to remove the quotes around the URLS in the CURL commands

### Deal<a id="deal"></a>
This endpoint takes no parameters, and will either start a new game if one does not exist for the device making the call,
or will retrieve any game currently in progress for the device.

The returned data contains the players cards and the token to play the game.

> **NOTE:** The device ID is a hash of the user agent and the client IP

```shell
curl -X 'POST' 'http://localhost:3000/deal'
```
```json
{
  "token":"190324df-34c2-4c07-97a5-1a06a21c9f6d",
  "device":"d08d4747b78e17c5459e8744604b90b35e669426f9c9d8e5b161b8828711c1ba",
  "cards":["J♦","A♥"],
  "dealerCards":[],
  "handValue":21,
  "dealerValue":0,
  "status":"playing"
}
```

### Hit<a id="hit"></a>
This endpoint optionally takes the game token as a parameter, and will draw another card for the players hand.
If the token is not specified then the device ID will be used instead to find the game.

The returned data contains the players cards and the token to play the game.

```shell
curl -X 'POST' 'http://localhost:3000/hit?token=game-token-goes-here'

curl -X 'POST' 'http://localhost:3000/hit'
```
```json
{
  "token":"2203e6c9-7383-48d9-9002-f441520a7791",
  "device":"d08d4747b78e17c5459e8744604b90b35e669426f9c9d8e5b161b8828711c1ba",
  "cards":["3♥","10♦","3♦"],
  "dealerCards":[],
  "handValue":16,
  "dealerValue":0,
  "status":"playing"
}
```

### Stay<a id="stay"></a>
This endpoint optionally takes the game token as a parameter, and will pass the turn to the dealer who will draw cards.
Both hands will be evaluated and a winner will be chosen.
If the token is not specified then the device ID will be used instead to find the game.

The returned data contains the players and the dealers cards, their relative values and the token to play the game.
However the game is over at this point and an new /deal call must be made to start a new game.

```shell
curl -X 'POST' 'http://localhost:3000/stay?token=game-token-goes-here'

curl -X 'POST' 'http://localhost:3000/stay'
```
```json
{
  "token":"2203e6c9-7383-48d9-9002-f441520a7791",
  "device":"d08d4747b78e17c5459e8744604b90b35e669426f9c9d8e5b161b8828711c1ba",
  "cards":["J♦","A♥"],
  "dealerCards":["6♣","J♣","6♠"],
  "handValue":21,
  "dealerValue":22,
  "status":"Dealer Bust"
}
```

### Stats<a id="stats"></a>
This endpoint takes no parameters and will return the win, loss and draw count for the device making the call.

```shell
curl 'http://localhost:3000/stats'
```
```json
{
  "wins":4,
  "loses":2,
  "draws":1
}
```

### History<a id="history"></a>
This endpoint optionally takes the start date as a parameter and will return the game history for the device making the call, after the start date if specified, as an array of responses.

```shell
curl 'http://localhost:3000/history?start=2024-10-03'

curl 'http://localhost:3000/history'
```

```json
[
  {"token":"6c359eb8-16bb-406a-93ff-6fbdaf1e5519","device":"d08d4747b78e17c5459e8744604b90b35e669426f9c9d8e5b161b8828711c1ba","cards":["6♣","5♦","10♥"],"dealerCards":["7♠","5♥","Q♣"],"handValue":21,"dealerValue":22,"status":"Dealer Bust"},
  {"token":"de3db63b-4363-4c33-80cc-3ff51f02ea81","device":"d08d4747b78e17c5459e8744604b90b35e669426f9c9d8e5b161b8828711c1ba","cards":["9♠","5♥","7♥"],"dealerCards":["Q♥","5♠","10♥"],"handValue":21,"dealerValue":25,"status":"Dealer Bust"},
  {"token":"420b767b-9506-47cc-a1e8-ed11d513fd30","device":"d08d4747b78e17c5459e8744604b90b35e669426f9c9d8e5b161b8828711c1ba","cards":["4♣","10♣","9♦"],"dealerCards":["6♣","3♥"],"handValue":23,"dealerValue":9,"status":"Bust"}
]
```

Commit message:

Add game history delete endpoint

README.md, after:

# TSBlackjack
[![GitHub issues](https://img.shields.io/github/issues/nakedmcse/TSBlackjack.png)](https://github.com/nakedmcse/TSBlackjack/issues)
[![last-commit](https://img.shields.io/github/last-commit/nakedmcse/TSBlackjack)](https://github.com/nakedmcse/TSBlackjack/commits/master)

This contains the TypeScript version of the BlackJack game API.

## Environment
The `.env` file must be created for this application to run.  Rename `.envExample` to `.env`.

### Env File Settings
Edit the `.env` file to set the following:

| Setting                   | Description                                                             |
|---------------------------|-------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| PORT                      | The port the service will listen on                                     |

## Building

To build this API, clone this repo and then execute:

```shell
npm install
npm run build
```

This will compile the API to the /dist folder.

You can then execute the API using:

```shell
npm run runjs
```

The API can also be run directly without building for development using:

```shell
npm run run
```

## Usage

This API contains 6 interactions.

1. [Deal](#deal)
2. [Hit](#hit)
3. [Stay](#stay)
4. [Stats](#stats)
5. [History](#history)
6. [Delete](#delete)

> **NOTE:** Depending on your shell, you may need to remove the quotes around the URLS in the CURL commands

### Deal<a id="deal"></a>
This endpoint takes no parameters, and will either start a new game if one does not exist for the device making the call,
or will retrieve any game currently in progress for the device.

The returned data contains the players cards and the token to play the game.

> **NOTE:** The device ID is a hash of the user agent and the client IP

```shell
curl -X 'POST' 'http://localhost:3000/deal'
```
```json
{
  "token":"190324df-34c2-4c07-97a5-1a06a21c9f6d",
  "device":"d08d4747b78e17c5459e8744604b90b35e669426f9c9d8e5b161b8828711c1ba",
  "cards":["J♦","A♥"],
  "dealerCards":[],
  "handValue":21,
  "dealerValue":0,
  "status":"playing"
}
```

### Hit<a id="hit"></a>
This endpoint optionally takes the game token as a parameter, and will draw another card for the players hand.
If the token is not specified then the device ID will be used instead to find the game.

The returned data contains the players cards and the token to play the game.

```shell
curl -X 'POST' 'http://localhost:3000/hit?token=game-token-goes-here'

curl -X 'POST' 'http://localhost:3000/hit'
```
```json
{
  "token":"2203e6c9-7383-48d9-9002-f441520a7791",
  "device":"d08d4747b78e17c5459e8744604b90b35e669426f9c9d8e5b161b8828711c1ba",
  "cards":["3♥","10♦","3♦"],
  "dealerCards":[],
  "handValue":16,
  "dealerValue":0,
  "status":"playing"
}
```

### Stay<a id="stay"></a>
This endpoint optionally takes the game token as a parameter, and will pass the turn to the dealer who will draw cards.
Both hands will be evaluated and a winner will be chosen.
If the token is not specified then the device ID will be used instead to find the game.

The returned data contains the players and the dealers cards, their relative values and the token to play the game.
However the game is over at this point and an new /deal call must be made to start a new game.

```shell
curl -X 'POST' 'http://localhost:3000/stay?token=game-token-goes-here'

curl -X 'POST' 'http://localhost:3000/stay'
```
```json
{
  "token":"2203e6c9-7383-48d9-9002-f441520a7791",
  "device":"d08d4747b78e17c5459e8744604b90b35e669426f9c9d8e5b161b8828711c1ba",
  "cards":["J♦","A♥"],
  "dealerCards":["6♣","J♣","6♠"],
  "handValue":21,
  "dealerValue":22,
  "status":"Dealer Bust"
}
```

### Stats<a id="stats"></a>
This endpoint takes no parameters and will return the win, loss and draw count for the device making the call.

```shell
curl 'http://localhost:3000/stats'
```
```json
{
  "wins":4,
  "loses":2,
  "draws":1
}
```

### History<a id="history"></a>
This endpoint optionally takes the start date as a parameter and will return the game history for the device making the call, after the start date if specified, as an array of responses.

```shell
curl 'http://localhost:3000/history?start=2024-10-03'

curl 'http://localhost:3000/history'
```

```json
[
  {"token":"6c359eb8-16bb-406a-93ff-6fbdaf1e5519","device":"d08d4747b78e17c5459e8744604b90b35e669426f9c9d8e5b161b8828711c1ba","cards":["6♣","5♦","10♥"],"dealerCards":["7♠","5♥","Q♣"],"handValue":21,"dealerValue":22,"status":"Dealer Bust"},
  {"token":"de3db63b-4363-4c33-80cc-3ff51f02ea81","device":"d08d4747b78e17c5459e8744604b90b35e669426f9c9d8e5b161b8828711c1ba","cards":["9♠","5♥","7♥"],"dealerCards":["Q♥","5♠","10♥"],"handValue":21,"dealerValue":25,"status":"Dealer Bust"},
  {"token":"420b767b-9506-47cc-a1e8-ed11d513fd30","device":"d08d4747b78e17c5459e8744604b90b35e669426f9c9d8e5b161b8828711c1ba","cards":["4♣","10♣","9♦"],"dealerCards":["6♣","3♥"],"handValue":23,"dealerValue":9,"status":"Bust"}
]
```

### Delete<a id="delete"></a>
This endpoint takes a parameter `sure` which must be set to true and will delete the game history for the device making the call.

> **NOTE:** If sure is not set to true, the history will not be deleted

```shell
curl -X 'POST' 'http://localhost:3000/delete?sure=true'
```

```json
true
```
